Scheduler is built around two basic concepts - events and
resources.</p><h3>Events</h3><p>An event is an instance of something happening.
&nbsp;It has a time when it happens, and possibly a duration. &nbsp;However,
events are for the most part not very interesting unless they involve people or
things. The main thing that Scheduler does is to keep track of which resources
are involved in each event, and then let events be selected, based on the
resources which they involve.</p><h3>Resources</h3><p>Scheduler understands 6
different kinds of resources which can be used by
events.</p><ul><li>Staff</li><li>Pupils</li><li>Groups</li><li>Locations</li><li>Services</li><li>Properties</li></ul><p>Staff,
Pupils and Locations are fairly self-explanatory. &nbsp;Services are things
like Catering, Parking, Porters or Cleaning. Properties are used to categorize
events - the largest category is Calendar, for events in our public calendar,
but others include Sport Calendar, Music Calendar, Drama Calendar and
others.</p><p class="leading">Groups</p><p>Groups are the odd man out in the
list of resources. &nbsp;They don't represent anything on their own, but
instead allow you to group together any of the other resources. &nbsp;They can
do obvious jobs like representing teaching groups or tutor groups, but they
impose no restrictions on what resources can be put into each group.
&nbsp;Rather than just being groups of pupils, you can potentially create a
group containing 6 pupils, 3 members of staff, 2 rooms, plus the Music
Calendar. &nbsp;You can also nest groups within groups, and even subtract one
group from another.</p><h3>Structured information</h3><p>Most of what Scheduler
does could be done with Google Calendar, except that Google Calendar doesn't
understand structured information. &nbsp;You'd need to create thousands of
separate calendars to cover all the resources within the school, then spend
thousands of man hours copying all the events between the
calendars.</p><p>Instead Scheduler uses just a single place to store all its
event information. &nbsp;As of this writing (17th Nov, 2015) it contains
234,248 events, 7486 resources, 660,354 instances of resources being directly
linked to events and 112,118 membership records connecting resources to groups
- which in turn are connected to events. &nbsp;The end result of this is that
there are currently 3,924,330 connections (direct or indirect) between
resources and events.</p><p>Viewing all those on screen at once would make for
a cluttered display, so much has been done to allow selective
viewing.</p></div>
